HIZURU: This is not the first time
you're living through the same July 22nd.
I think you must have repeated
this day many times.
So in other words, you're a time traveler.
(sucks teeth)
That's right.
I understand. But I doubt that it was me
who told you my real name.
(Shinpei gasps)
I guess maybe you met my brother?
(insects chirping)
WOMAN 1 (on TV): And next up,
we have a report from Kinokawa City.
It's time to hear
all about the delicious treats
and offerings
that await Wakayama's summer visitors.
Hi there. Tell us all about it. Go ahead!
KOBA MART
YOMOGIMOCHI
HIZURU: It's time, Ryunosuke.
(theme music)
(insects chirping)
THIRD LOOP
JULY 24 (TUESDAY)
HIZURU: Mm-hm.
I have to say that's very interesting.
It could even be
the plot of my next novel.
That crazy thing confused
the hell out of me.
It just went right over my head.
This book is actually a good proof
of my theory.
Swampman isn't fiction.
SHINPEI: The Swamp Man in this story
is just like the shadows,
and the protagonist
has the same name as you.
About 14 years ago,
I met a shadow on this island,
and it killed my entire family.
(gasps)
HIZURU: That's why it's not hard for me
to believe what you're saying.
SHINPEI: But... That's, uh...
I won't say any more. If I'm not careful,
I'll reveal who I really am.
If I did tell you
and you were copied somehow,
a shadow could find out who I really am.
Shadows always go after people's families.
And since Hizuru returned to the island,
they'll be after her too.
(Shinpei gasps)
SHINPEI: Family...
Is that why they targeted Ushio
and Mio and I? No. Wait a sec.
What about Alain?
Don't worry about it,
I already took care of Alain's shadow.
(gasps)
There won't be any more shadows of him.
It's a lot like getting measles,
you're immune afterward.
If someone manages to kill your shadow,
you'll never get this sickness again.
It's always been that way.
So... So if you kill your own shadow,
then you can't be copied again.
Mm. That's exactly how I got immunity.
Now my shadow can never come back again.
And, frankly, I don't care
whether you believe me or not.
But you don't have immunity,
do you, Ms. Nagumo?
So why did you risk coming back
to the island, then?
I can't tell you that. But...
I'll tell you one thing,
I came to save you.
Although you probably
don't trust me much right now.
No, I, uh... I just...
What's your plan?
We have a total of 54 hours
until the shadows kill everyone
at the festival.
SHINPEI: That four-armed shadow,
it seemed like it was controlling
all the other shadows.
My younger sister, Mio, is in danger.
Will you help me keep her safe
and get rid of her shadow creature?
Your notes said that Mio's shadow
will appear tonight
at Bistro Kofune
at nine o'clock, is that right?
SHINPEI: Yes.
Okay, then. But I just need
to handle one thing before that.
-The Kobayakawa family?
-Mm?
You're going to fail, okay?
That's how it happened.
What do you mean?
SHINPEI: On the 24th,
I saw something on the ground.
It was Shiori's shadow.
So you're saying that I won't be able
to kill Shiori today no matter what.
Yes. So please just let me come with you.
These shadows are my enemies too.
SHINPEI: Just remember,
even if we fail again,
this time, I can find out why.
All right, then. But I'm going to be
the only one who goes inside.
KOBA MART
What is Ms. Nagumo doing?
She's been listening to something.
That person there doesn't have
any memory
-of being the Hizuru we know.
-Huh?
HIZURU: Roger that, big Sis.
WOMAN 2 (on TV): Arakawa peaches,
famously grown right here in Momoyama,
are a tender summer treat beloved
by people all across Japan,
and guess what!? They're in season now!
-(doorbell dings)
-Huh?
Hi! Oh, Hizuru!
Hey, did I catch you at dinner...
I mean, excuse me.
I had some souvenirs
from Tokyo I wanted to give you.
SHADOW ASAKO: Aw!
You really didn't have to do that!
SHADOW SHIORI: You can let her in.
Ah. Oh, please, uh, come on in.
Thanks a lot.
SHADOW ASAKO:
My husband Tatsuo, my daughter Shiori.
Come in, come in.
Make yourself comfortable.
HIZURU: Don't mean to intrude.
Do you mind if I open my luggage?
SHADOW ASKAKO: Mm! You know, Hizuru,
why don't you join us for dinner?
We have so much catching up to do.
SHINPEI: I was wondering about something.
NEZU: What is it?
Does Ms. Nagumo have a split personality?
No thanks, I can't stick around very long.
(suspenseful music)
HIZURU: The shadow itself is flat,
so a blow to the body isn't effective.
Mama?
HIZURU: In the midst of all this,
they keep their eyes fixed on me.
And once they find out
that I can kill them,
-they'll be careful and start avoiding me.
-(yelling)
HIZURU: So I kill both at the same time.
Asako!
(groaning)
HIZURU: Guess I only reeled in one.
A split personality? Why do you say that?
She asked me if I met her brother.
And if she's not making him up,
that has to mean...
Hm... Well, you ain't too far off,
but that ain't it.
Uh...
SHINPEI: Can she really handle this
all by herself?
NEZU: We wait here, trust me on that.
Ryunosuke's got the power
to do battle with shadows.
(Shinpei gasps)
Ryunosuke?
That's right. Ryunosuke's a tough one.
Let me make myself clear.
I don't understand
your time loop or whatever.
But if you decided to go inside,
that might change the reason
she's gonna let Shiori's shadow escape.
(growls)
(shrieks)
Right now, Ryunosuke is probably trying
to find out why her plan failed.
(growls)
Listen up. You should know
she trusts you, okay?
NEZU: And you told her
she ain't dying today.
And if you were lying about that,
I swear I'll make you pay.
Yes.
SHINPEI: Ms. Nagumo was definitely strong.
That was Ryunosuke.
SHINPEI: Mr. Nezu,
can you tell me about Ryunosuke?
What do you know about them?
Huh?
I guess it wouldn't take much
for you to find out.
NEZU: Hizuru had a...
a twin brother, younger than her.
His name was Ryunosuke.
Fourteen years ago, he was found dead
somewhere up on Mount Takanosu.
I heard Hizuru's scream nearby,
so I ran over to her.
It was a horrible thing to see.
Papa! Mama!
This can't be... Why did...
Why did you kill them?
(thuds)
-NEZU: He had been eaten.
-(gasps)
Chunks of his body were bitten off,
muscle and bone was gone.
People figured it must've been wild dogs.
But Hizuru kept saying
that she knew he was murdered.
Along with all the bite wounds,
on his neck by his windpipe,
he had strangulation marks.
(gasps)
HIZURU: I missed.
No. It was a hit.
Ugh!
NEZU: But no matter how many times
she said it, no one believed Hizuru.
And the body was cremated the same day.
(gasps)
Hold on, that's just like Ushio.
Yeah, wasn't too far off.
I bet you all this might just be related.
NEZU: There are monsters on this island.
And I swore I'd kill every single shadow
I could find in this damn place,
even if it costs me my life.
You ready to join the fight
the same way I did, Shinpei?
Yes.
(choking)
You're really dangerous.
You know how to kill us, don't you?
Is that little traitor on your side?
I see you can follow Mommy
and Daddy's movements.
And you move quicker than shadows.
So are you really human?
Just copy me, create a shadow of me,
then you can tell it do what you want.
SHADOW SHIORI: You cocky little...
Okay, fine, then. I'll do just that.
-(Hizuru choking)
-But first I have to end your life.
-(grunts)
-Huh? Ugh.
Ugh! You old hag!
You're hurting yourself, too, you know?
(groaning)
(grunts)
HIZURU: What happened?
Was it not deep enough?
That's weird, the first hammer strike
should've been fatal.
Something's different about this shadow.
Sorry about that, Sis,
I know you must've felt that.
It went to the third floor.
It happened exactly like Sis said.
(cell phone buzzes)
SHINPEI: Look. It's from her.
Really?
CHANGE TO PLAN B
SHINPEI: Plan B.
-That means it's our turn now. Take it.
-Oh.
This is where the rubber meets the road.
Let's find out
how serious you are about this.
BEDROOM 2 (KIDS' ROOM)
NORTH BALCONY
HIZURU: Third floor, north side window.
DIARY
SHIORI KOBAYAKAWA
-It's useless.
-(Shadow Shiori gasps)
After you release the light to copy me,
you won't be able to move
for a few seconds.
(Shadow Shiori gasps)
So I guess it really must take
a whole lot of effort
just to scan a single human
and get the info you need.
Do you think I'll waste those few seconds?
Get ready,
because the moment you try to copy me,
I'm going to kill you.
(gasps)
HIZURU: For sure this time.
You're no fun.
(ominous music)
SHADOW SHIORI: Bye-bye.
(thrilling music)
This is Plan B!
(yells)
The third shot...
Bring it on! Ahh!
Huh? You're running away now?
Get back here!
Damn it!
-(grunts)
-(gasps)
Shinpei!
(both groaning)
No, please stop.
SHINPEI: You little...
Was it you? Did you do it!?
Get the hell off me, you disgusting rat.
Did you do it? Did you kill Ushio?
(Shinpei groans)
-(Shadow Shiori grunting)
-That's enough. You can let go, Shinpei.
NEZU: We've got it now.
It can't move an inch from here on out.
One or two isn't gonna cut it, though.
We'll nail it down in three spots.
That'll guarantee it doesn't move.
(grunting)
And once a shadow gets stuck
in place like this,
it becomes a hell
of a lot easier to capture it.
SHINPEI: Huh? Uh... You say capture?
Wait, so that was your plan
from the start?
That's right.
Uh... Well, I didn't know that!
'Cause I didn't tell you.
I didn't expect you to be useful.
SHINPEI: This is a big deal.
We actually captured Shiori.
It'll change the future.
Once the shadow's body
is completely pinned down like this,
I guess it has no way to escape.
Neither of us knew this before, Shinpei.
Thanks to you we didn't lose it.
(gasps)
If it were just the two of us,
we would have failed for sure.
(chuckles)
Well, damn, you've got some real guts
for a youngin', don't you?
NEZU: Good job.
(Shadow Shiori giggling)
HIZURU: What's so funny?
This shadow is different from the others.
I chose plan B, so we can examine it.
SHINPEI: Uh, what do you mean, different?
Hang on, first, we need to get it
to answer the question Shinpei asked.
Was it you who killed Ushio Kofune,
and created her shadow afterward?
Ahh. My big Sis Ushio, huh.
SHADOW SHIORI: Yep. I killed her.
It was me who strangled her to death.
(grunts)
So you killed her... Why did you...
Why did you kill her?
So you just go around the island,
and you kill people and take their places?
What the hell do you want?
It's the end.
SHADOW SHIORI: After this summer,
it's all going to be over.
(gasps)
All of us are going to go home.
Our whole family is going home.
What'd you say?
What are you talking about?
(Shadow Shiori giggling)
SHADOW SHIORI: Come on,
don't be so afraid, Shinpei.
Listen, Shinpei, you don't understand me.
My human self was killed off
by one of the shadows,
but before I died,
the shadow made a perfect copy of me,
my body and mind, and my memories.
So, yes, I am Shiori Kobayakawa.
I was just born into the world again.
I know you're lying!
You're not the real Shiori!
It was you who killed her,
along with her entire family!
(soft chuckle)
SHADOW SHIORI: I really hope you become
a shadow soon, too, Shinpei.
Just come with us.
Please? You could become my big brother.
-(grunting)
-(Shadow Shiori chuckling)
(thuds)
That's enough chatting for now.
You can get confused
if you talk to a shadow too long.
(panting)
(Shinpei sucks teeth)
SHINPEI: Damn it!
NEZU: That sure was a tough one.
How did you kill Asako
and Tatsuo's shadows?
The usual method,
one blow with the hammer.
If you manage to hit
a large enough portion
of the flat shadow
with the hammer, it's fatal.
We just don't have enough samples yet
to prove my sister's theory correct.
It was saying some pretty strange things
about its family going home and whatnot.
(Hizuru sighs)
SHINPEI: Copies,
so the copies are acting exactly
like the humans themselves?
NEZU: It said it was born
into the world again.
How is an exact copy different
from the original person?
That was a major theme in Swampman.
Right, Ryunosuke?
-Uh... Huh?
-What are you thinking?
NEZU: I told him
about that so-called split personality.
Oh, is that right?
Hi there, it's nice to meet you.
I'm Ryunosuke Minakata.
I was Hizuru Minakata's brother.
So, are you the author
of all those mystery novels,
or is it your sister?
Oh, no, all of those were my sister.
I'm not a good writer at all.
I'm really just here for support,
I come out in her interviews,
or when she has to socialize at a party.
You've read all of her books,
haven't you, Shinpei?
Oh, well, I, uh, actually I've read, uh...
He's a huge nerd, a total Nagumo nerd.
Oh, no kidding, you're a super-fan.
Honestly, I'm a little surprised
that wasn't on the recording.
I guess she was embarrassed...
(groaning)
What the... What the hell are you doing?
(grunts)
HIZURU: We need to set
a few things straight, okay?
(gasps)
I am not embarrassed about anything,
and I have nothing to hide.
I just have a tendency
-to omit unnecessary info.
-SHINPEI: Ms. Nagumo, your're bleeding!
Are you all right?
No, and you need to be careful
what you say!
SHINPEI: Does letting down
her hair turn her into Hizuru?
Don't let the shadows trick you
with their outward appearance, Shinpei.
They might appear to you as a friend
or a member of your family,
but you can't afford to hesitate.
Save your contemplation
about the similarity
of copies and originals,
that's for when everything's over.
HIZURU: It was too late
for the Kobayakawas.
However, there is still time for you.
(exhales deeply)
HIZURU: Is it true
that you can kill Mio's shadow?
NEZU: All right, Shinpei,
I'll wait outside on the street here
until it's time.
HIZURU:
We should probably exchange numbers.
So you can tell me
if something unexpected happens.
All you have to do is try to act
the exact same you did before,
assess the situation.
You'll be the observer.
Right.
SHINPEI: Hi, I'm home!
Sorry I'm so late. Mio?
-(Shinpei gasps)
-Huh?
Welcome home, Shin-chan.
(gasps)
SHINPEI: No way.
Ah, it really stings!
God, what's with these onions?
My eyes feel like they're on fire!
-SHINPEI: Huh?
-I can't see anything! It really hurts!
Wait a sec. What are you cooking?
Duh, what does it look like?
I wanted to do a stir fry
with white onions, vegetables
-and some chicken breast.
-Hey, be careful with that!
SHINPEI: That's weird, Mio never cooked
in any of the loops before.
Why are you cooking?
Shin-chan. You didn't look
so good in the morning,
so I just thought that I'd make
something special just for you.
SHINPEI: Oh. I see. Thanks a lot.
But leave the rest to me, okay?
I'd hate to see
you cut yourself, you know?
Hey, don't worry. I'm feeling just fine.
MIO: I'll wash my face.
SHINPEI: Thank goodness,
Mio isn't a shadow,
and I can still make curry with this.
-Sometimes she can just be so cute.
-(tap water running)
What am I thinking?
I can't change anything else.
Ugh, I screwed up. The way I acted
already changed Mio's behavior tonight.
I'll just make curry,
and everything will be the same as before.
Yeah. As if Ms. Nagumo and Nezu
weren't waiting outside,
armed and ready to rush in at any moment.
Apart from finding
and killing the shadows,
I need to do exactly the same things.
Any changes I make
will affect other events, like dominoes.
It's all connected.
Then the future I saw
will be useless to me.
-(stomach rumbles)
-Oh.
Whoa. Hey, Mio.
That was a pretty loud rumble.
Wow. Are you really that...
hungry?
USHIOH: Yeah.
(closing theme music)